what's going on muscle monster is alive
Gonzales here and today I'm going to
give you somewhat of a formula for
creating a well-rounded chest workout
routine alright so let's talk about the
chest and the anatomy of it it's pretty
basic right we have the PEC minor major
which is pretty much the whole PEC and
then we got the upper clavicular or the
upper chest okay and the functions are
pretty basic the upper chest is going to
flex the shoulder while the PEC minor
major is going to extend the shoulder
and then all together they're going to
bring the humerus across the body all
right so what I would recommend you
start off with is a big heavy compound
that's really going to target the PEC
minor and major because obviously this
is the larger part of the PEC right so
an exercise you can use is either the
flat bench press with a barbell or a
dumbbell or the decline bench press with
a barbell or a dumbbell either one is
going to work perfectly fine for loading
that muscle okay just choose one or
maybe alternate between them it's
completely up to you but always start
your chest workout with one of those
movements all right then next we want to
do the same but we want to target the
upper clavicular okay we're gonna do
this with either an incline barbell
press and incline dumbbell press or if
you wanted to you could even do a cable
cross over from low to high to really
isolate that upper clavicular okay now
one thing that I do want to mention is
just for the sake of variety if you
start your first lift with a dumbbell
then perhaps doing a barbell or a cable
for your second lift would allow the
workout to de seem like
more variation as opposed to doing
barbell barbell etc right so and that's
just you know my recommendation you
don't have to go that route but it's
it's pretty much what I do when I'm
training my chest okay and then lastly
we want to do a nice isolation exercise
that's going to hit the whole PEC and
that's why I always recommend that you
finish your chest training with some
kind of a fly some kind of a movement
that's going to allow you to bring the
humerus across the chest completely
whether it be the PEC deck dumbbell
flyes or even flies with the cable
either one of those movements is going
to be great to finish off your chest
workout that's pretty much it guys I
hope you enjoyed if you did click the
like button below that'll let me know
that you want to see more muscle groups
and if you haven't already make sure to
download my chest training DVD it's
completely free link below go there put
your name in your email address and
you'll get instant access to those
videos subscribe for more and I'll see
you guys in the next one peace
you